## Game Testing Concepts

The videos I watched gave me a visual idea of what goes on in testing. To see the Halo 3 testers rigorously test things that are just simple, ie. Jumping up multiple times to make sure the game doesn’t crash or not being able to jump outside of the world. From what I learned the testing process makes up different processes. You have you white box testers, which most of the video was focused on, that will test the game themselves to try and break it, find bugs, and also play as if they are an average player of the game. As one of the testers says, if he is happy playing the game and others are happy playing the game, then that is a success.

The other type of testing brought up was automated testing. They didn’t expand much on it, but it was mentioned briefly to get the overall hardware and to see if bugs could be found that way. The other cool thing was bringing in random people to play test the game and tutorial, black-box testing. It was interesting seeing one of the testers getting frustrated by one player not going the right way in the tutorial, but it goes to show that each player is unique in thinking and might do something unexpected that the testers didn’t see coming. Getting that direct feedback is very helpful in making the game fun and creating a balance. I also noticed that they use psychiatrists to observe a player and how that player goes about doing something or utilizing a too and how many times that player utilizes a path, tool, weapon, car, etc. It creates great analysis.

One thing that shocked me was the mentioning of bugs and how as they create the code and game, there can literally be 30,000+ bugs, and only 25,000 would get fixed, leaving the other bugs to either be not found, or unrepeatable to figure out a fix for it. 

As an aspiring software developer, I can get an idea of how testers and software developers work hand in hand, so it gives me insight into my field, even though this is a video game industry, the same could be applied to application software as well. Watching these videos was fun to see the inner workings and also the downfalls and hardships that come with long hours and sometimes that can create friction amongst co-workers. All in all, I feel that getting a visual look at how and what goes into testing gives people more appreciation for what they do and a great insight into what the industry/job is like.
